Analytics and boolean combination in JS
=

In our Analytics, we work on *facts* that have *properties*. The *properties* are expressed in the form of *tags*. If the *fact* has a certain *property*, the corresponding *tag* is set. Otherwise, there is nothing.
Then, we have *metrics*, which are a boolean combination of *tags*:
```
my_metric = tag1 & tag2 | (tag3 & !tag4)
```
An easy way to represnt that in Js would be to have an array of *tags* as a property of our *fact* object:
```javascript
fact1.tags = [ 'tag1', 'tag3', 'tag22' ];
```
But then, the *metric* will not be that easy to implement. It has to use set functions, which can be slow and all the boolean combination has to be re-implemented.

A defined set of tags
-

Second thought would be to say: hey, we have a defined set of tags, so we can actually put all of them in our *facts* with a boolean value, *true* when set, *false* otherwise. Something like:
```javascript
fact1.tags = { tag1: true, tag2: false, tag3: true, tag4: false, tag5: false };
```
Then the *metric* function is easy enough to write: 
```javascript
var my_metric = function (tags) {
  return tags.tag1 && tags.tag2 || (tags.tag3 && !tags.tag4);
}
```
Translating the boolean combination into this function is fairly straight forward.

But, there is a big problem: if my system is complex, I can have hundreds of thousands of different *tags* from which only a few are set per *fact*. Moreover, the *tags* cannot really be defined beforehand.

Enters the *undefined*
-

What if we only put in our *tags* property the one that are set. The other will then be undefined or unset.
```javascript
fact1.tags = { tag1: true, tag3: true };
```
It almost works. 

It almost works because *undefined* is not *false*. Let's try that in a node.js CLI:
```
> undefined || true
true
> undefined || false
false
> undefined && true
undefined
> undefined && false
undefined
```
So, for ||, *undefined* behaves like *false*, but not at all for &&.

Enters !!
-

!! can at first be thought as a no-op. From a mathematical stand point it is. But not in JS. The reason is that *!var* will be a boolean whatever *var* is. For example, !1 is false as is !42 or !'false' and !0 is true.
As a result, *!!var* will be the corresponding boolean value of *var*. Most of the time it doesnot matter as anything that is neither *undefined* or *null* behaves like its corresponding boolean in boolean expression.

But, for our present problem, __it converts *undefined* into *false*__.
So our *metric* function defined as follows will now work and be very fast to compute:
```javascript
var my_metric = function (tags) {
  return !!tags.tag1 && !!tags.tag2 || (!!tags.tag3 && !tags.tag4);
}
```
(no need for !!!, ! is enough.)